docs/api/functions/plot_diff_maps.rst, before:

plot_diff_maps
=================

.. py:function:: plot_diff_maps(fs1, fs2, view=None, area=None, overlay=None, diff_style=[], pos_values=[], title_font_size=0.4, legend_font_size=0.35, frame=-1, animate="auto")

    *New in metview-python version 1.8.0*.

    High level function to generate difference plots between ``fs1`` and ``fs2``.

    :param fs1: specifies the first input :class:`Fieldset`. Has to contain the same number of fields on the same grid as ``fs2``.
    :type fs1:  :class:`Fieldset`
    :param fs2: specifies the second input :class:`Fieldset`. Has to contain the same number of fields on the same grid as ``fs1``.
    :type fs2:  :class:`Fieldset`
    :param view: specifies the map view. Cannot be used together with ``area``. See :func:`make_geoview` on how to build a view with predefined areas and map styles.
    :type view:  :func:`geoview`
    :param area: specifies the map area. It can be either a named built-in area or a list in the format of [S, W, N, E]. When ``area`` is a list a cylindrical map projection is used. Cannot be used together with ``view``.  
    :type area: str or list
    :param overlay: specifies the data and the corresponding style that should be plotted as an overlay onto each map
    :type overlay: data-like, list or tuple
    :param diff_style: user defined contouring style for the difference plots. If it is not defined a predefined style is used.
    :type diff_style: a style or list of styles
    :param pos_values: all the predefined difference contour styles use two :func:`mcont` objects; the first defining the negative value range while the other the positive one. The value ranges are symmetrical i.e. mirrored to 0. ``pos_values`` allows to define a new value range for the default style; it sets the positive value range and the negative one is automatically generated from it.
    :type pos_values: a style or list of styles
    :param title_font_size: specifies the font size in cm for the plot title
    :type title_font_size: number
    :param legend_font_size: specifies the font size in cm for the plot legend
    :type legend_font_size: number
    :param frame: specifies which animation frames should be plotted, -1 means all the frames will be plotted
    :type frame: number
    :param animate: controls the plotting of multiple animation frames
    :type animate: str or bool

    :func:`plot_diff_maps` is a convenience function allowing to plot the difference between the ``fs1`` and ``fs2`` :class:`Fieldset` s in a simple way using predefined settings. While the data and map view styles can be fully customised, the title and legend are automatically built and no control is offered over them. The layout is also fixed: ``fs1`` and ``fs2`` are always  plotted in the bottom row while their difference (``fs1`` - ``fs2``) will appear in the top row, as the snapshot below illustrates it:

    .. image:: /_static/api/plot_diff_maps_1.png
            :width: 600px

Commit message:

Mark some functions as experimental

docs/api/functions/plot_diff_maps.rst, after:

plot_diff_maps
=================

.. py:function:: plot_diff_maps(fs1, fs2, view=None, area=None, overlay=None, diff_style=[], pos_values=[], title_font_size=0.4, legend_font_size=0.35, frame=-1, animate="auto")

    .. warning::
        
        This is an experimental feature. New in metview-python version 1.8.0
    
        
    High level function to generate difference plots between ``fs1`` and ``fs2``.

    :param fs1: specifies the first input :class:`Fieldset`. Has to contain the same number of fields on the same grid as ``fs2``.
    :type fs1:  :class:`Fieldset`
    :param fs2: specifies the second input :class:`Fieldset`. Has to contain the same number of fields on the same grid as ``fs1``.
    :type fs2:  :class:`Fieldset`
    :param view: specifies the map view. Cannot be used together with ``area``. See :func:`make_geoview` on how to build a view with predefined areas and map styles.
    :type view:  :func:`geoview`
    :param area: specifies the map area. It can be either a named built-in area or a list in the format of [S, W, N, E]. When ``area`` is a list a cylindrical map projection is used. Cannot be used together with ``view``.  
    :type area: str or list
    :param overlay: specifies the data and the corresponding style that should be plotted as an overlay onto each map
    :type overlay: data-like, list or tuple
    :param diff_style: user defined contouring style for the difference plots. If it is not defined a predefined style is used.
    :type diff_style: a style or list of styles
    :param pos_values: all the predefined difference contour styles use two :func:`mcont` objects; the first defining the negative value range while the other the positive one. The value ranges are symmetrical i.e. mirrored to 0. ``pos_values`` allows to define a new value range for the default style; it sets the positive value range and the negative one is automatically generated from it.
    :type pos_values: a style or list of styles
    :param title_font_size: specifies the font size in cm for the plot title
    :type title_font_size: number
    :param legend_font_size: specifies the font size in cm for the plot legend
    :type legend_font_size: number
    :param frame: specifies which animation frames should be plotted, -1 means all the frames will be plotted
    :type frame: number
    :param animate: controls the plotting of multiple animation frames
    :type animate: str or bool

    :func:`plot_diff_maps` is a convenience function allowing to plot the difference between the ``fs1`` and ``fs2`` :class:`Fieldset` s in a simple way using predefined settings. While the data and map view styles can be fully customised, the title and legend are automatically built and no control is offered over them. The layout is also fixed: ``fs1`` and ``fs2`` are always  plotted in the bottom row while their difference (``fs1`` - ``fs2``) will appear in the top row, as the snapshot below illustrates it:

    .. image:: /_static/api/plot_diff_maps_1.png
            :width: 600px
